# Predict Bike Sharing Demand with AutoGluon

## Introduction to AWS Machine Learning Project

## Overview
In this project, using AWS open-source AutoML library, AutoGluon to predict the bike sharing demand using the Kaggle Bike Sharing demand dataset. The ulimate objective is to use AutoGluon's 'Tabular Prediction' to achieve accurate AutoML-based baseline models without dealing with a lot of cumbersome issues like data cleaning, feature engineering, hyperparameter optimzation, model selection, etc.

## Source:  AWS Machine Learning Engineer Nanodegree Scholarship Program

## Problem Overview:
Bicycle sharing programs, also known as bike-sharing systems, offer a convenient and automated method for renting bicycles through a network of kiosk locations dispersed throughout urban areas. These systems enable individuals to rent a bike from one location and return it to another on an as-needed basis. At present, there are over 500 bike-sharing programs in operation worldwide.

The vast amount of data generated by these systems makes them an attractive subject for researchers as they provide explicit records of travel duration, departure and arrival location, and time elapsed. As such, bike-sharing systems serve as a sensor network, providing valuable insights into the mobility patterns of a city. This Bike Sharing Demand Competition on Kaggle invites participants to utilize historical usage patterns and weather data to predict bike rental demand in the Washington D.C. based Capital Bikeshare program.

## Dataset:
[Bike-Sharing-Demand-Kaggle-Competition-Dataset-Link](https://www.kaggle.com/competitions/bike-sharing-demand/data)

## Getting Started

To meet specifications, the project will require at least these files:
* Jupyter notebook with code run to completion
* HTML export of the jupyter notebbook
* Markdown or PDF file of the report

Images or additional files needed to make your notebook or report complete can be also added.


* Clone this template repository `git clone git@github.com:udacity/nd009t-c1-intro-to-ml-project-starter.git` into AWS Sagemaker Studio (or local development).

* Proceed with the project within the [jupyter notebook](project-template.ipynb).
* Visit the [Kaggle Bike Sharing Demand Competition](https://www.kaggle.com/c/bike-sharing-demand) page. There you will see the overall details about the competition including overview, data, code, discussion, leaderboard, and rules. You will primarily be focused on the data and ranking sections.

### Dependencies

```
autogluon==1.4.0
pandas>=1.3.0
numpy>=1.25.0,<2.4.0
scikit-learn>=1.0
matplotlib
seaborn

```

### Installation
For this project, it is highly recommended to use Sagemaker Studio from the course provided AWS workspace. This will simplify much of the installation needed to get started.

For local development, you will need to setup a jupyter lab instance.
* Follow the [jupyter install](https://jupyter.org/install.html) link for best practices to install and start a jupyter lab instance.
* If you have a python virtual environment already installed you can just `pip` install it.
```
pip install jupyterlab
```
* There are also docker containers containing jupyter lab from [Jupyter Docker Stacks](https://jupyter-docker-stacks.readthedocs.io/en/latest/index.html).
